# BSR-detection-using-Computer-Vision
This repository hosts the python codes for training and applying the trained model to identify Bottom Simulating Reflection from a given seismic section with zero phase american polarity. The 3 architectures used for this work are U-Net, Res-Net and Vgg-19, where Vgg-19 performs best out of the three.
The uploaded files consist of:
(a)	*_Model_Train.py, where ‘*’ denotes the type of architecture used. It can either be U-Net, ResNet or Vgg-19. These python files consist of the code to train the model. The only inputs required are the file locations to the training images and labeled masks from where the code would take the data and train the model. This code generates .pth files for each epoch and for the best epochs along with the training metrics. The .pth file consist of the trained model until that epoch. This file can directly be called in the apply model code to apply the model on an unseen seismic section with zero phase American Polarity.
(b)	*_Model_Apply.py (can be used as a test file for any given model architecture), where ‘*’ denotes the type of architecture used. It can either be U-Net, ResNet or Vgg-19. These python files consist of the code to apply the corresponding training model. The inputs required are the file locations for the seismic section image (zero phase American Polarity) and the corresponding mask. The model can still be applied and can detect a BSR if the mask file is not present. However, in such a case a random location to any existing mask file has to be entered for the code to execute.
(c)	*_5_fold_Cross_Validation.py, where ‘*’ denotes the type of architecture used. These python files consist of code that was used to evaluate K fold cross validation for each architecture.
(d)	Folder with ‘images’ and ‘masks’ that consist of the 121 seismic sections (zero phase American Polarity) that were used to train the model along with the mask files with the labeled BSR.
